Software Maturity Framework. As you can see, we are here. We have Part 1, Part 2, Part 3, and Part 4, 5. And then, right now, we are at Part 1, Software Process Maturity. So we will discuss about basic concept of this maturity framework today. Okay, so what kind of things you may learn from this class? First, what is a process? What is a process, you think? software development process. What is a software development process or any other process? How can you define a process? Procedures. Procedures. And what else? If I ask you define a process to do something like to produce a software. Steps. Actions. And what else you need? It's a life cycle of certain phases. Life cycles, phases. So probably we can group tasks, actions together and make some grouping, and then we may call them phases. So we may have three phases, four phases, five phases throughout the development. And what else? Can you define the way to do things? What kind of thing you will do? No. To achieve some goal. To achieve a goal. 

Okay. So what is a goal? What is a goal and what kind of thing to do to achieve the goal? Goal could be a business goal, could be a project goal, specific project goal or both. And what else? A systematic approach. A systematic approach. Probably some kind of failure recovery procedures? Failure recovery procedures, good. And some risks we can expect and how can you avoid from this risk or what we'll do whenever we have a risk. Yes, we may include it in the process. What else? Whenever we perform something based on the actions, activities, tasks in each phase we defined, we have to do something by producing something, right? So we have to produce work art, work product. So we need to include the work product in the process. What we will produce in our process, whenever we Say, oh, I complete this phase. I complete this action. I complete this activity I had in the schedule. How can you say it is completed or not? How can you judge it? So we should have some kind of milestone there. And we should produce something to show, oh, as evidence to complete this work. 

And if you just produce something, can you say it is completed really? probably we should have a certain way to declare this is done or not. Okay? For example, like having a peer review for the work product, the end of each phase, so we can formally say, oh, this is done, once it is passed from this review, something like that. And whenever you produce something, can you do it from nothing? From the pain? We should have some input to use to produce output throughout this activity. So we need to define what should be input, pretty key. And what is output? So that kind of thing we have to decide. And what else we can consider in a process? Yes? using the existing company. So we have to consider whether we develop entire parts of product or we buy some parts or we reuse some parts from the existing software we developed or somebody developed and sell it in the market. That kind of thing you have to consider too. That's good. And what else you can consider? If you need a certain technology you should know to develop this product, and then you need to study. 

You need to include the training here. So when you have to have a training, that kind of thing should be also considered. Okay, then what kind of thing we need to do these kind of things? We need a plan and schedule. So we have to perform some planning and scheduling activity. And what else do we need to consider? Documentation. How can we document? How much document? So do we perform heavy documentation or do we go with the lightweight documentation? That kind of thing we should decide from the beginning. Yes, sometimes we can change. We can change the plan anytime if we think it is necessary. But you should have a certain plan to make planning and scheduling and training. We need an outline of the software. Outline of the software. We need to find what the problem is to solve. So we need to have some kind of problem definition face there. In our phase defined in the process, we should have a certain phase to analyze the problem, to define the problem. And what else we can consider here? Feasibility study. 

Feasibility study, right. So probably in the early phase, we should consider feasibility study. Whether it is feasible to do this. Is it good for the business? Is it good to achieve our business goal? Does it create any money to the benefit to the company? Or even though it will not create any money, but still it is good for the society, whatever, depending on your business goal, probably you can decide. So we should have that kind of activity in the early phase. So we need to define some phases to include that kind of activity there. And what else we can consider in the process? Expenses. So we have to consider how much we need. So that's why we can ask the customers, I need this much. Can you afford? And what else? If you need any technology, certain technology, we have to get the training. And we need a... Who will do this? So we have to consider human resource, right? So in the planning, scheduling, we should consider that. So if we go through a sequential process, so once we define phases in our process, phase 1, phase 2, phase 3, and then that's it. 

And then if you go this sequentially, probably we have to consider this an early phase. Sometimes we take another approach, like iterative approach. We have a phase 1, phase 2, phase 3. Then go back to the phase 1 and the phase two, phase three, iteratively we can perform this too. So in that case probably we make a plan and change this plan in each iteration for the next iteration. So that's possible too. Also we need to define what kind of methods we use. For example, you are required to use object oriented technology to do this. Then you have to learn some object oriented method, analysis and design method to use. And what about the tools? Tools help us to automate our work and standardize the work. So we may define methods, tools you will use. So when you produce a work product, what is input? So provide input to this tool and produce output, what we expect. Something like that. And also everybody should know Not everyone, but the people, engineers who are related to those activities and tools should know how to use these tools. 

And what kind of things are expected whenever you use certain tools, something like that. So all these kind of things are related to the process. Whenever we define a process, we have to consider those. So mainly we define a set of steps. And the work products we produce from each step. Okay? And we define the method tools. Who will produce what and who will use that work product I produced. Something like that. So it should be defined. So systematically they can do this work. Okay. So now we have idea what is process. And then in this class, we will study how to define a process, what kind of things we have to consider to define process, to define effective process, to define a mature process, capable process, to produce work product, quality product. Repeatedly, you may produce a work product one time, very good product. But next time you produce poor product, then your customers will not like it. So you like to have a capability to produce the same quality, at least the same quality or better quality product every time you produce. 

So to make your process capable to do it, what kind of thing we'd better consider? The kind of things we like to learn in this class. So what is a software development process? How can I develop software through a software process? Once you define your process, then also you have to monitor, control your process. They monitor your people, your engineers follow your process. If they don't follow what happen, it's process useless. You spend the time to define a process, you spend the resources to define process, you don't use it, it's useless. That means eventually you will not produce good quality product repeatedly. If you have a hero in your organization one time, probably he solved all the problems, that's great, but he may move to another company because he is very capable so somebody will like him, right? So they will hire him with a very good salary so they will move. So then what happens next year? You will not produce that much. Then it is not repeatable process, okay? It is a poor process. 

And how good is my current software process? Then another issue here is, okay, you have process. You define a process, okay? But how do you know my process is good or at least okay? For? If the process is iterative. Okay. So iterative does not mean you will produce good product, quality product. If you repeatedly produce good quality, yes. But how can you measure your process is good or not? By testing what? Product? Prototype? Prototype? By looking at prototype, you think, okay, you will produce good product and your process is good. I'm asking about the process. Check the output. Check the output and then it's too late. It's gone already. You produce something. If it is not good product, it's late. Yes. Maybe you should at least be meeting your milestones. Checking your process and meeting the milestone. If it doesn't meet the milestone, what happens? What do you do? In the middle of time, production time. Yes, you have an opinion? Produce demo in each phase. Produce them again? Demo. 

Demo, produce demo. Can they prove your process is good? Make sure there is no error. As long as no errors, your process is good? Make good study time. Make a... Before building it, make a good study on it. Yes, it may help to produce good product. Again, we go back to the question here. Question was, how can you say your process, current process is good or bad? How about feedback from the customers? Okay, so if customers say, I'm satisfied with that. If they say, I'm not satisfied with that, what do we do? It's too late again. Keep track of each and every step you do. Keep track of each step. Yeah, that's a good approach. But again, it is too late. Changing your focus a little bit to consider, not only consider product. Product. But consider process view. In the process view to, yes? Wouldn't you only be able to see it by having a history of projects? History of a project and you compare history of project and what you will do for the current process. Yeah, so you finish one project and you use a particular process. 

You try to find out what was good, what was bad. Choosing an appropriate method. Choosing, is it identical? Choosing an appropriate method. We produced good quality product in history. Okay. So we have idea. 